# individual-project-brentszklaruk


****NOTE: even with using GitDesktop, many errors still kept arising when I tried to commit and push my project files to git, so I decided on a solution of uploading a ZIP of the entire Unity project folder. 



FOR UNITY PROJECT ZIP FOLDER: https://drive.google.com/open?id=1zYy6GxbhbRB3D5pIRqSxnnNDknq4t_GW 

FOR UNITY PROJECT WINDOWS BUILD: https://drive.google.com/open?id=1SYctF-57jCwbr3aqAvBb0DCOmbE9dVdb


VR EXPERIENCE:
Intended for HP or residents in similar situations
Intended use of game is for user to actually decide to not shoot the deer, as opposed to shooting it → experience is designed to have to face this dual-sided [yes or no] decision in the VR world and transfer that same decision to real world policy applications with regards to killing deer. 

**NOTE: When I was testing the VR experience, rigidbodies even with colliders were falling through terrain and plane meshes, and after extensive hours upon hours of trial and error and online research, I have concluded that the memory required by the high polycount and paired with my 8gb ram Mac laptop's limitations is the single factor causing “slip-ups” in other areas, causing inconsistencies in the mesh renderer of the terrain and plane (https://answers.unity.com/questions/420368/character-falls-through-floor-even-with-character.html)
UNIV 3279
	My hometown, Highland Park, New Jersey is currently facing an extremely tragic and complex issue involving deer populations and concerns over safety. Highland Park is the “professor” town of Rutgers University - essentially the town where all of the professors and graduate students of the university live. When I was growing up, my town stayed between a population of 9,000 and 11,000 residents, but recently, due to the expansion of the business graduate programs at Rutgers, there has been an influx of students, professors, and others affiliated with the university to the area, many of them wanting to reside in Highland Park. This situation presented itself as an opportunity for regional entrepreneurs focusing on real estate development, where investments have been made to build up half-a-dozen townhouse/condo and apartment complexes within the 2 square mile town from the ground up in forest areas inhabited by deer. Of course, these forests had to be completely leveled in order for such aforementioned construction to occur, so consequently, many hundreds of deer have been permanently displaced over the past four years alone in Highland Park. During a typical day living with these displaced deer, you will encounter a couple run out into the road and almost hit your car (often causing car accidents), encounter many in your backyard eating at your vegetable garden and other very valued plants, and sometimes cornering and lunging at your dog in your own backyard. In the grand scheme of things, and relative to other problems of life, this issue seems almost superficial and just slightly bothersome, however, in an extremely small suburban New Jersey township, this deer problem has evolved into a crisis in the eyes of many residents. 
Politically influential residents of Highland Park in the past 8 months have successfully lobbied for the addressal of this problem, however the resulting method of mitigating the issues caused by deer roaming is frankly horrific. In the township, shooting and killing deer is now decriminalized. A problem that could have easily been remedied by providing habitats for the displaced deer has now caused an extremely controversial moral dilemma, and a tragedy if not addressed. 
I have come to an easily deduced conclusion that deer are unfortunately seen as irritants, aggressive creatures and “dehumanized” in my community, so I have based my small VR experience off of a perspective of trying to combat that sentiment. 
Intentionally simple, my VR experience presents a moral dilemma for all players who enter the scene. You see on the plane a situation perfectly resembling that of my hometown, where a deer is standing and obstructing normal daily life that goes on, as the deer stands motionless in a backyard gazebo right near a table topped with fresh fruit which you have laid out for yourself. You are surrounded by new housing developments and your dilemma is clear. A handgun drops from the air and you have the choice whether to shoot a bullet at the motionless harmless animal while being calmed by an intentionally relaxing soundtrack and soundscape, or whether to not shoot. The parallel between this seemingly odd VR moral dilemma and the particular real-world comparison is intended to be very clear, and the hope is that a user’s choice to not fire the gun will translate into their real-world decision to actively oppose this Highland Park legislation encouraging the killing of deer, or if the user does decide to fire, the (almost guaranteed) internal visceral gut reaction of feeling even a little evil, wrong, mean, or malevolent will remain with the individual, and either consciously or subconsciously come to mind when that person interacts with real-world situations involving the legislation - hopefully influencing their decision on whether or not to support it. 
	The benefits of using the VR medium for this experience can simply be stated as being the immersiveness that players experience when interacting with the environment, and given that I intend for the user’s choices made in the VR experience to stick with them subconsciously particularly when they leave the experience and interact in “real life”, the most immersive and realistic-feeling that users can face the moral dilemma with, the more solidified the linkage to real-world policy experience can provide. This is because a VR experience, as opposed to a regular video game experience using a flat TV or monitor at a distance to show the world is more of a 3rd person player perspective, while the VR medium can be characterized as a more 1st person one. However, the primary drawback that comes from using the VR medium to present this experience is the accessibility hurdle that is existent when using a technology that requires extra hardware in order to operate. With about 82 million VR headsets in the world and over 2.5 billion computers with access to the internet, the scope that a web-based experience can reach is clearly much larger and can be much more impactful in this sense than a VR-based experience. Specifically with regards to my VR experience, the number of people in my hometown hypothetically able to experience the dilemma as I created it is likely an extremely small number, a tiny percentage of the intended audience - thus hindering the effectiveness of my project. 


